<meta charset="utf-8">
### Best wishes for 2023

It’s raining hard after a week of cold and snow, not unexpected this time of year but there’s
nothing like a weather challenge to keep us on our toes.

Katelyn got a job in December, her first “real” job (whatever that means), a research analyst
for Sentis, a Vancouver based polling firm. It’s a great opportunity for her to learn how a lot
of different companies operate. She’s working from home, which has a lot of advantages, but
she’s also putting in long hours. I hope she finds a balance and gets out to meet with her
colleagues and clients in person in the new year.

Daniel finished his BCIT programming course this month as well. He had been thinking about some
employment training with NPower but is now reluctant, maybe because it doesn’t seem that they
offer programs oriented towards the programming work he wants to be doing. They mostly offer
training for Microsoft system administration, which I think would be helpful for him in any
case. I hope he finds meaningful work, but he has a lot to offer at many levels, so almost any
organization he can connect with should be able to offer that.

----

Karen is volunteering again at a horse rescue in Langley called New Stride. They rehabilitate
off-track thoroughbreds, almost exclusively from Hastings Park in Vancouver. She’s enjoying the
challenge and it’s nice that she found a way to continue her service to these often neglected
animals after we left San Jose last year. She worked with a couple of different organizations
there and I hope that 2023 offers a new opportunities for her to contribute to the community.

I’ve been consistent with my exercise. I took a break last month after I somehow pulled a muscle
in my back, but I’ve been getting out every day, for the most part. I have to say I prefer the
dry cold weather to incessant rain. Maybe in the New Year we can spend some more time up in
Mount Seymour Park.

I did a very brief consulting stint for Patrick Lo’s software company, Trakking, to help him
establish some connections with OOCL here in Vancouver. That didn’t amount to much because OOCL
have their own comprehensive in-house solution for managing trucking vendors, but it was good to
talk to Tim McGee in Vancouver to understand how those things work.

Before we flew out to Edmonton at the beginning of December I made some comments on LinkedIn
about Maersk shutting down TradeLens. I suggested the technology that both Maersk and OOCL/COSCO
were using was not suitable to the needs of the shipping industry and it was too expensive to
support the kind of transformation that people claim is necessary for the industry. Some of my
former colleagues in Hong Kong were upset by this, but a lot of random blockchain enthusiasts
started following me so it feels like a wash.

