Before we begin, we must consider the following allegory.

A man is walking in a public park. Around him various organized events are taking place — sporting
practices, community events, small groups of people observing and cheering on those taking part. He
feels disconnected from those around him, as he has always felt throughout his life. In his academic
and professional endeavours the institutions seemed foreign to him. His family and upbringing were
disconnected. He was not aware of any distinguished service in the military or public life. None of
the benefits of wealth or intellectual achievement provided him with a bridge to the world of grand
ideas to change the world. Bitterness and resentment always maintained a rueful presence under the
surface of his daily existence. He read, not voraciously, but sporadically, and he was frustrated by
his failure to attain the enlightenment he thought he was seeking, but he would have been oblivious
to the angels singing. His culture was presented to him on a platter of middle class white
suburbanism, and it never occurred to him to question his cleverness or virtue. He was smug,
socially liberal, economically conservative, and unwilling to face the discomfort of challenging his
moral contradictions. He was quick to judge, he had a volatile temperament, but he was indecisive
about his own life. He wanted to achieve greatness — he felt he deserved it — but he was unwilling
to make sacrifices, exercise discipline, or take advantage of any fortunate situation he found
himself in. He squandered his luck, offended his benefactors, and hurt those who depended on him. He
talked too much when he should have been listening, and he ignored opportunities to learn from
people whose life experience was far richer and varied than his own, even when he was surrounded by
them for years. He was angry when he felt that nobody understood what he was saying, even though he
made little effort to communicate clearly or articulate his ideas in any detail. He spoke in vague
generalities that seemed wise to him, but did not question his assumptions when others thought he
was vacuous and self-indulgent. He spoke of helping others, but never followed through. He was
unaware of service organizations or community groups that needed his help. He was uncharitable; he
was an alcoholic and a glutton.

