### Historical Anomalies

About ten years ago, I visited the Rosicrucian Egyptian Museum in San Jose, California. Founded
by a Rosicrucian organization called AMORC — the Ancient Mystical Order Rosae Crucis, it has the
largest collection of Egyptian antiquities in the Western United States, and was established by
Harvey Spencer Lewis in 1915, amid a massive publicity campaign.

Lewis was a writer and an advertising agent who wrote about a hidden city of Lemurians beneath
Mount Shasta, and a plagiarized theory that Jesus Christ survived crucifixion. He had earlier
been affiliated with Alistair Crowley's Ordo Templi Orientis, but split with that group. In 1916,
after the German OTO split with Crowley over The Book of the Law, the German group recognized
AMORC in a document Lewis proudly displayed (in spite of OTO’s association with the practice of sex
magick, which AMORC has never advocated).[^1].

The museum takes up an entire city block. The architectural design closely follows Egyptian
motifs — and I was genuinely taken by its beauty. There is a lovely garden out back, with many
varieties of roses and other plants, Egyptian statuary, and fountains everywhere. When I
approached the building there were three strikingly beautiful girls attending a table covered with
books and pamphlets. They were polite and friendly, and I talked to them for almost half an hour
before I decided to go inside.

“Is it a religion?” I asked. “Yes,” the girls told me, although officially the organization says
it is not, and it points out that includes members of every religion and creed. I was intrigued.
When I entered there was another remarkably attractive young woman attending the front desk. The
entry fee was twenty dollars but she insisted that I should only have to pay ten dollars. "Are
you sure you're not a member of AMA? We don't need to see your card or anything." So I paid ten
dollars and spent the next several hours inside.

There is a large collection of artifacts, and in the basement there is a detailed mockup of a
burial chamber. Upstairs there is a reading room filled with religious pamphlets from the 19th
and early 20th centuries, which sits adjacent to a temple with an altar, which did not seem to
be used during the day. I sat there and read through the materials, but I have to confess that
none of it really made much sense to me.

Lewis is buried in a small shrine adjacent to the garden outside. His monument is enclosed in a
locked steel cage, but it is visible to anyone who visits. I also confess that at the time my
familiarity with Egyptology was extremely limited, so it was hard for me to understand what
exactly I was looking at. In the past ten years my understanding has improved somewhat, and
I still think about this museum a lot. I would like to go back. It seems there is more to it than
can be experienced in a summer afternoon.

[^1] [Melton's Encyclopedia of American Religions, 8th Edition (Gale, 2009)](https://books.ms/main/365D2CF37A03FC1D2D072313B981038F)
