### Age of Discovery

The phenomenon of the century is instant discovery, and instant reactions,
on a massive scale.

If the reactions are affirmative, they are superficial at best.
The reality of every experience is questioned and scrutinized, weaponized
by neo-atavists blind to their own immersion and dependence on the tools,
cultures and power structures they claim to despise.

The years of pandemic shutdown hang over us. Everyone realizes that a
return is a real possibility, and most of us have learned about the
capriciousness and inequality of a public health crisis,— but this not
a new phenomenon, as far as centuries are concerned.

The armchair economists (and there are no other kinds) among us often
dwell on miserable predictions about inflationary stimulus and misguided
politics, but I choose to be optimistic.

In human terms, we are first and foremost biological creatures, not
_homo economicus_;— that is a cultural appellation.

Fundamentally, many of us have experienced a great loss. There is
mourning, but there will also be recovery. Life is tenacious beyond
our technocratic imaginings. People will rebuild their livelihoods,
and especially young people will discover new ways to create joy and
growth in their lives.

I hope you can feel some optimism too.

2022 has been a terrible year in many ways, but I also feel that a great
transition is underway. Transitions are painful, the end of the old ways
of thinking and acting, but the introduction of new ideas that will
improve lives and, yes, increase happiness.

So have a happy and prosperous New Year everyone. I hope that all your
disappointments are short-lived, and that none of your pessimistic predictions
come to pass.
